Introduction to Python:-

What is python?
Python is a high-level programming language celebrated for its simplicity, readability, and versatility. It means it is used to create programs used in a system, software, applications to perform some specific functions. 
It is a widely used language because of its easy syntax like the English language. It was designed by Guido van Rossum and released in 1991.
Unlike, other programming language like c++, c# and java .It also has the feature of oops paradigm which supports the four pillars of oops like inheritance, abstraction, encapsulation and polymorphism.
It is also called as cold scripting language or glue language because it easily integrates with html and other sources to provide better functionality and interface. 
It generally saves the time of programmers by increasing the readability and often requires easy syntax.

Why do we use it?

1.We use python due to its some extra supported features:-
2. We can create dynamic web applications
3. web development (server-side),
4. software development,
5. mathematics,
6. system scripting.

Why is there a need for python?

python is needed due to many reasons:-
1. Data Science
python is highly preffered by data scientists. because use of extensive data and in it compies or many areas.
it becomes more necessary with the release of 'numpy' and 'pandas'

2. Easy to Learn
it is considered as easy to learn because of its similar english like syntax.

3. Cross-Platform and Open Source
it is widely supported on cross platforms like - windows, linux and macos for more than 20 years.

4. Vast Libraries
Python is supported by PyPI which has 85,000+ python scripts and modules accessible to the user.

5. Flexibility
Python has several powerful applications integrated with other programming languages.

6. Artificial Intelligence
the huge support by Artificial Intelligence to the python. it becomes necessary to learn it.

7. Web Development
Python has a variety of framework support website or web-development. Python has an array of frameworks for developing websites. 
Popular frameworks such as Django, Flask, and Pylons are characterized by faster and stable code

8. Computer Graphics
Python can be employed in small, large, online or offline projects. It is used to develop GUI and desktop applications.

9. Scripting and Automation
What most people don’t know about Python is that it can be used as a scripting language. In scripting, the code is written in script form and gets executed.

10.  Versatile Language and Platform
Python remains very relevant today as it can be used in any operations scenario or software development, be it in managing local and cloud infrastructure, working against a SQL database, developing a custom function for Hive & Pig, 
supporting object-oriented design or even developing a small tool for the user.